Q1 :-A

Q2 :-B

Q3 :-B

Q4 :-B

Q5 :-A

Q6 :-D

Q7 :-B

Q8 :-D

Q9 :-B,D

Q10:-A,B,C

Q11 :- Describe the basic architecture of a CNN?

Convolutional Neural Networks are quite different from most other networks.They are primarily used for image processing but
can also be used for other types of input such as audio.A typical use case for CNNs is where you feed the network images and
the network classifies the data. CNNs tend to start with an input “scanner” which is not intended to parse all the training
data at once. For example, to input an image of 100 x 100 pixels, you wouldn’t want a layer with 10 000 nodes.Rather, you
create a scanning input layer of say 10 x 10 which you feed the first 10 x 10 pixels of the image.Once you passed that input,
you feed it the next 10 x 10 pixels by moving the scanner one pixel to the right.

This input data is then fed through convolutional layers instead of normal layers, where not all nodes are connected to all nodes.
Each node only concerns itself with close neighboring cells. These convolutional layers also tend to shrink as they become deeper,
mostly by easily divisible factors of the input. Besides these convolutional layers, they also often feature pooling layers.Pooling
is a way to filter out details: a commonly found pooling technique is max pooling, where we take say 2 x 2 pixels and pass on the 
pixel with the most amount of red.


Q12 :- What is convolution in CNN? What is the role of convolution in image processing?

Convolution is an integral transformation operation on a function through a specific operator. It reforms the original function 
into a new representation of the similarity of two functions in a certain window. It is widely used in image processing for feature 
detecting without cancelling the spatial associations between pixels. It searches for a certain feature with the help of corresponding
operator in a much larger pixel set.

In image processing, convolution is an efficient way of feature extraction, skilled in reducing data dimension and producing a less
redundant data set, also called as a feature map. Each kernel works as a feature identifier,filtering out where the feature exists 
in the original image. Eventually it produces a map whose altitude reveals how these features distribute. Since directly analyzed
original data ask for a great amount of preprocessing such as image segmentation, and can hardly deconstruct the symbolic information
of the images, it is necessary that images are processed with some certain general feature describing methods like convolution. It 
aims to extract target features automatically and to make them more ‘visible’ for computers. Operating convolutions not only fully 
describe the characteristics of the input, but also does it lower the demand for manual operations.

Q13 :- What is the difference between Max Pooling and Average Pooling? Explain briefly.

The Average Pooling is used for to calculate the average value for each patch on the feature map.Whereas Max Pooling is used for 
to calculate the maximum values for each patch of the feature map.

Q14 :- What is Padding? Why is it used?

Padding is a term relevant to convolutional neural networks as it refers to the amount of pixels added to an image when it is being 
processed by the kernel of a CNN.

padding will be useful for us to extract the features in the corners of the image. during the convolution process the corner pixels
of the image will be part of just a single filter on the other hand pixels in the other part of the image will have some filter 
overlap and ensure better feature detection, to avoid this issue we can add a layer around the image with 0 pixel value and increase
the possibility of feature extraction in the corners also.This padding will also help us to keep the size of the image same even after
the convolution operation.

Q15 :- Describe the layers used in classification part of a CNN?

There are three types of layers in a convolutional neural network: convolutional layer, pooling layer, and fully connected 
layer. Fully connected layers are placed before the classification output of a CNN and are used to flatten the results before 
classification. This is similar to the output layer of an MLP.