Q1 :-B

Q2 :-B

Q3 :-B

Q4 :-D

Q5 :-C

Q6 :-B

Q7 :-C

Q8 :-A

Q9 :- A,B,D

Q10:- A,B,D

Q11:- Differentiate between a compiler and an interpreter? Which of them is used in python language?

Interpreter translates just one statement of the program at a time into machine code.	Compiler scans the entire program
and translates the whole of it into machine code at once. Interpreter takes very less time to analyze the source code.
However, the overall time to execute the process is much slower. The compiler takes a lot of time to analyze the source code.
However, the overall time taken to execute the process is much faster. An interpreter does not generate an intermediary 
code. Hence, an interpreter is highly efficient in terms of its memory.	A compiler always generates an intermediary 
object code. It will need further linking. Hence more memory is needed.Interpreter translating the program continuously
till the first error is confronted.If any error is spotted, it stops working and hence debugging becomes easy.
A compiler generates the error message only after it scans the complete program and hence debugging is relatively harder
while working with a compiler.Interpreters are used in Python language.

12. What is the purpose of PYTHONPATH environment variable?

PYTHONPATH is an environment variable which you can set to add additional directories where python will look for modules
and packages. For most installations, you should not set these variables since they are not needed for Python to run. 
Python knows where to find its standard library.

13. How will you remove all the leading and trailing whitespaces in a string in python? Give one example

The strip() method removes any leading (spaces at the beginning) and trailing (spaces at the end) characters 
(space is the default leading character to remove)
example :-
Remove spaces at the beginning and at the end of the string:

txt = "     banana     "

x = txt.strip()

print("of all fruits", x, "is my favorite")

output :- of all fruits banana is my favorite


