Q1 :-  A and D
Q2 :-  B,C and A
Q3 :-  B
Q4 :-  B
Q5 :-  A
Q6 :-  C
Q7 :-  B
Q8 :-  B
Q9 :-  B
Q10 :- C

Q-11 What is data-warehouse?

A data warehouse is a large collection of business data used to help an organization make decisions. The concept of
the data warehouse has existed since the 1980s, when it was developed to help transition data from merely powering 
operations to fueling decision support systems that reveal business intelligence. The large amount of data in data 
warehouses comes from different places such as internal applications such as marketing, sales, and finance;
customer-facing apps; and external partner systems, among others.

On a technical level, a data warehouse periodically pulls data from those apps and systems then, the data goes through 
formatting and import processes to match the data already in the warehouse.The data warehouse stores this processed data
so it’s ready for decision makers to access.How frequently data pulls occur, or how data is formatted, etc.Will vary
depending on the needs of the organization.

A data warehouses provides us generalized and consolidated data in multidimensional view. Along with generalized and 
consolidated view of data, a data warehouses also provides us Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) tools. These tools help
us in interactive and effective analysis of data in a multidimensional space. This analysis results in data generalization 
and data mining.

In other way we can say that a data warehouse is a database, which is kept separate from the organizations operational
database.There is no frequent updating done in a data warehouse. It possesses consolidated historical data, which helps 
the organization to analyze its business. A data warehouse helps executives to organize, understand, and use their data 
to take strategic decisions.Data warehouse systems help in the integration of diversity of application systems.A data
warehouse system helps in consolidated historical data analysis.


Q-12 What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

OLTP and OLAP: The two terms look similar but refer to different kinds of systems.
Online transaction processing (OLTP) captures, stores, and processes data from transactions in real time. 
Online analytical processing (OLAP) uses complex queries to analyze aggregated historical data from OLTP systems.

OLAP (ONLINE ANALYTICAL PROCESSING)	                         OLTP (ONLINE TRANSACTION PROCESSING)
1) Consists of historical data from various Databases.	         1) Consists only operational current data.

2) It is subject oriented.Used for Data Mining,                  2) It is application oriented.Used for business tasks
   Analytics, Decision making,etc.	
                                 
3) The data is used in planning,problem solving                  3) The data is used to perform day to day fundamental operations.
   and decision making.                                                
	 
4) It reveals a snapshot of present business tasks.	         4) It provides a multi-dimensional view of different business tasks.

5) Large amount of data is stored typically in TB,PB	         5) The size of the data is relatively small as the historical data 
                                                                    is archived. For ex MB, GB
6) Relatively slow as the amount of data involved is             6) Very Fast as the queries operate on 5% of the data.
   large. Queries may take hours.	
                       
7) It only need backup from time to time as compared             7) Backup and recovery process is maintained religiously.
   to OLTP.	

8) Only read and rarely write operation.	                 8)Both read and write operations.


Q-13 What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?

Data Warehouse is designed with four characteristics.They are :-
1. Time variant.
2. Non Volatile.
3. Integrated.
4. Subject Oriented.

Lets see that characteristics in detail :-
Time Variant :- A Data Warehouse is a time variant data base, which supports the business management in analysing the
business and comparing the business with different time periods like Year, Quarter, Month, Week and Date
 
Non Volatile :- It is non volatile Database, once the data entered into the database, it does not reflects to the change
which takes place at operational database. Hence the data is statics in Data Warehouse.
* It generates artificially keys or surrogate keys to store the history.
* A surrogate key generated serious of numbers.
* It requires more disk space.

Integrated Database :- It is a integrated database, which allows you to collect the data and integrate the data with 
multiple database sources

Subject Oriented :- Data warehouse is a subject oriented database, which supports the business need of individual 
department specific user.
Example : Sales, HR, Accounts, Marketing etc.

Q-14 What is Star-Schema?

A Star Schema is a schema Architectural structure used for creation and implementation of the Data Warehouse systems,
where there is only one fact table and multiple dimension tables connected to it. It is structured like a star in shape 
of appearance.This is one of the efficient data warehouse schema types, which can use simple querying for accessing the
data from the system, in order to derive logical contents for analytical and report generation purposes.

The star schema is a necessary case of the snowflake schema. It is also efficient for handling basic queries.
It is said to be star as its physical model resembles to the star shape having a fact table at its center and
the dimension tables at its peripheral representing the star’s points.

Q-15 What do you mean by SETL?

Short for Set Theory as a Language (or Set Language), SETL is a high-level programming language that's based on 
the mathematical theory of sets. It was developed in the early 1970's by mathematician Professor J. Schwartz. 
SETL is an interpreted language with a syntax that is resembles C and in many cases similar to Perl. 
In SETL every statement is terminated by a semicolon. Variable names are case-insensitive and are automatically 
determined by their last assignment.